# Simple Storage Service \(S3\)



S3 is a object storage service. 

It is a highly secure, durable and highly available service

The objects are stored in "buckets"

Each Object can be from 0 to 5 TB

S3 buckets have universal namespace. The bucket names should be unique across aws.

S3 provides life cycle management

S3 provides versioning 

S3 provides encryption

S3 provides storage tiers

Object level security is provided by Access Control List. Bucket level security is provided by Bucket policies 

Successful uploads will generate a 200 status code.

### Storage Tiers:



##### S3: 

Provides 99.99% availability and 99.999999999% \(11 9's\) durability. The objects are distributed across devices and across facilities \(AZ's\) 

##### S3-Infrequently Accessed \(S3-IA\):

Provides 99.9% availability and 99.999999999% \(11 9's\) durability. But, there is a cost associated with retrieval. Retrieval is immediate. Used for storing objects  which are accessed in-frequently. Objects should be stored for a minimum period of 30 days

##### S3- Reduced Redundancy:

Provides 99.99% availability and 99.99% durability. 

##### Glacier:

Its very cheap. But, can be used only for data archival. It takes about 3-5 hours to retrieve an object from Glacier. Objects should be stored for a minimum period of 90 days. 

### Costs:

The S3 objects are charged using the following ways:

1. Storage
2. Requests made
3. S3 transport acceleration
4. Storage Management Pricing
5. Data Transfer Pricing 



|  | S3 - Standard | S3 - Infrequently Accessed | S3 - Reduced Redundancy | Glacier |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Availability | 99.99% | 99.9% | 99.99% | N/A |
| Durability | 11 9's | 11 9's | 99.99% | 11 9's |
| Min Storage Duration | n/a | 30 days | n/a | 90 days |
| Retrieval Fee | n/a | per GB retrieved | n/a | per GB retrieved |
| Lifecycle transition | yes | yes | yes | yes |



